Using Fangraphs plus stats to try and predict WS winner with a Random Forest Model. The data used for the model, its code, and outputs are all in the files. All the data used is from Fangraphs, I used the 2010 through 2023 seasons (skipping 2020) to train. The data was from opening day to June 15th for every season. I predicted using data for all games completed through June 14th in the 2024 seasons. Since the games played aren't even for every team in the dataset I used "+ stats" since they're already normalized. Overall I don't really like the predictions. A team being at 20 percent on June 15th doesn't make much sense to me. That makes it a better guide than any type of true probablity. There's some pretty obvious weaknesses, the stats I limited myself too and the model only takes into account who you have been up to this point. It knows nothing about injuries, strength of schedule, or possible playoff path. All it knows is what historic champions looked like on June 15th.

I ran 5 random forest models. There's no reason for 5 I just picked it, each forest has a depth of 5 and 500 trees. I picked those by more art then science. I tried a bunch of things and these looked good enough. My only critera was a log loss of .15 or under or I ran it again to save it as one of the 5 runs. I couldn't get the CSV files formatted that well on here but you can get all the results on this Github. 5Runs.csv is the results of the 5 individual trees. WSJune15.csv is the average of those 5 and the correspoing odds of the average probablites. ParameterImportance.csv is the how the tree weighted each stat in its in decison process.

You could probably improve on the results by changing the trees, depth, stats or whatever.

